#summary Instructions for building the OpenGL ES 2.0 Programming Guide sample code.

= Supported Platforms =

The sample code from the book is available for the following platforms:
  * [Instructions#iPhone iPhone]
  * [Instructions#Windows Windows] (Microsoft Visual Studio) using the AMD OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator or PowerVR Khronos OpenGL ES 2.0 SDK
  * [Instructions#WebGL WebGL]
		
=iPhone=

== Prerequisites ==
In order to be able to build and run the code samples, you will need:
		
  * Mac OS X 10.6.5 or later
  * iOS 4.2 SDK

Please checkout the source code from the subversion repository by doing:

{{{
svn checkout http://opengles-book-samples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ opengles-book-samples-read-only
}}}

The iPhone projects are located in the `/iPhone` directory.

== Build Instructions ==
Instructions for building and using the samples are in an e-Chapter on the iPhone 3GS available for download in PDF format from this link: [http://www.opengles-book.com/OpenGL_ES_20_Programming_Guide_iPhone_eChapter.pdf].
		
= Windows =

== Prerequisites ==
In order to be able to build and run the code samples, you will need:
  * Microsoft Windows XP or Windows Vista/7
  * An OpenGL 2.0-capable Graphics Card
  * Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 or Microsoft Visual Studio  2008 (you can also use the free Express Edition available from Microsoft at [http://www.microsoft.com/express/download/].

You will need to download and install the following:

In order to build and run the code samples, you will need 
			
  # AMD's OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator which can be downloaded from [http://www.opengles-book.com/ESEmulator.2009-04-28-v1.4.APRIL_2009_RELEASE.msi].  Please note that the OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator is no longer being actively developed or supported by AMD.  The most recent version is provided here for download as is, no support, feature enhancements or bug fixes will be provided by AMD for this software.
  # In order to view the `RenderMonkey` example workspaces, you will need to download and install `RenderMonkey` v1.81.  This tool can be downloaded from AMD Developer Central at [http://developer.amd.com/gpu/rendermonkey/Pages/default.aspx].
  # In order to build and run the OpenKODE sample in Chapter 15, you will need Acrodea's OpenKODE 1.0 Implementation for Windows. This can be downloaded from [http://www.acrodea.co.jp/en/openkode/] (NOTE: if you do not care to build/run the OpenKODE sample in Chapter 15, you can skip this step). 

==Examples==
All of the code samples and `RenderMonkey` workspaces can either be checked out from the opengles-book-samples subversion tree or downloaded from the following link: [http://www.opengles-book.com/OpenGL_ES_Programming_Guide_v1.0.2.zip].
		
  * (Updated 4/19/09 - v1.0.2) Paul Bennett reported two bugs in esGenSphere() in esShapes.c..The new update includes his fixes.
  * (Updated 8/24/08 - v1.0.1) We have received reports that some users are having difficulty running the samples on Nvidia GPUs when using the AMD OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator.  To workaround this issue, we updated the sample framework to be compatible with the Imagination Technologies PowerVR SDK.  For instructions on using the PowerVR SDK, please see [Instructions#Alternative: Setup Instructions Using the PowerVR SDK Alternative: Setup Instructions Using the PowerVR SDK].
  *  For those users running on an Nvidia GPU and still wanting to use the `RenderMonkey` samples, Till Rathmann posted a workaround over at the AMD Developer Forums at the following [http://forums.amd.com/devforum/messageview.cfm?catid=347&threadid=106798 link] (7/26/09). 

==Setup Instructions==
  # Unzip `OpenGL_ES_Programming_Guide_v1.0.1.zip` to its own folder or checkout the opengles-book-samples project from subversion.
  # If you have not done so already, install AMD's OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator.
  # Copy the following files from `C:\program files\AMD\OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator v1.1\bin` to the `\Bin` folder: 
    * libEGL.dll
    * libGLESv2.dll
  # Copy the following files from `C:\program files\AMD\OpenGL ES 2.0 Emulator v1.1\lib` to the `\Lib` folder:
    * libEGL.lib
    * libGLESv2.lib
  # For the OpenKODE sample in Chapter 15, place the following file from Acrodea's OpenKODE Implementation to the `\Lib` folder:
    * libKD.lib

==Alternative: Setup Instructions Using the PowerVR SDK==

  # Unzip `OpenGL_ES_Programming_Guide_v1.0.1.zip` to its own folder.
  # Download Imagination Technologies Khronos OpenGL ES 2.0 SDK from [http://www.imgtec.com/powervr/insider/sdkdownloads/index.asp here].
  # Copy the following files from `C:\Imagination Technologies\PowerVR SDK\OGLES2_WINDOWS_PCEMULATION_2.02.22.0756\Builds\OGLES2\WindowsPC\Lib` to the  `\Bin` folder:
    * libEGL.dll
    * libGLESv2.dll
  # Copy the following files from `C:\Imagination Technologies\PowerVR SDK\OGLES2_WINDOWS_PCEMULATION_2.02.22.0756\Builds\OGLES2\WindowsPC\Lib` to the `\Lib` folder:
    * libEGL.lib
    * libGLESv2.lib
  # Copy all of the files from `C:\Imagination Technologies\PowerVR SDK\OGLES2_WINDOWS_PCEMULATION_2.02.22.0756\Builds\OGLES2\Include` to the `\Common\Include` folder (overwriting the existing headers).
  # For the OpenKODE sample in Chapter 15, place the following file from Acrodea's OpenKODE Implementation to the \Lib folder:
    * libKD.lib

= WebGL =
The WebGL sample code is available from the opengles-book-samples subversion repository.  You can also view the WebGL sample code in action at [http://www.opengles-book.com/webgl.html].